1. *Imagine this scenario: You are a graduate student at U. Chicago studying nuclear physics in late 1942. The United States has been at war with Japan and Germany for about a year. You have several family members who were drafted are now fighting on both fronts; your brother was serving in the south pacific but is now a Japanese prisoner of war. There is the belief that the Germans are working on an atomic bomb and you have read a transcript of Prof. Tokutaro Hagiwara's lecture on Super-explosive U235, so you know the Japanese are aware of the potential for atomic weapons. One day, Oppenheimer seeks you out and asks you to join the project in Los Alamos. What is your immediate reaction? What is your carefully considered decision?*

I think upon initial reaction, I'd be ecstatic and excited to be able to work with these great minds on the forefront of science. However, deep down I would know what the scientific efforts are leading towards but possibly would end up convincing myself that its the physics leading towards a nuclear power plant. I think I would eventually turn it down if I knew what the efforts were leading up to. The mental burden to bear knowing that your knowledge and skillset would be used in such a twisted and destructive would be too much. I also think that contributing to war efforts in any way would be actively prolonging and increasing the death toll and suffering of it. After all, those in power need the help of the people to be able to fuel their war efforts. Nevertheless, I don't think it's fair to put the perspective I have now into that time, as I'm sure the environment and people around me will greatly influence my choice, no matter how much deliberation. 


1. *Briefly explain how Fermi determined the success of the chain reaction pile in Chicago. What measurements were made and how did they indicate a chain reaction?*

"k was the average number of secondary neutrons produced by one original neutron in a lattice of infinite size" Fermi measured the neutrons with a boron triflouride detector that would click and graph the intensity of neutrons. This was used to determine if the reaction would sustain, blow up or die down as it would either converge at 0 or eventually go to infinity in an ideal situation. This would determine if the pile had a net output of neutrons, whose energy can then be captured and harnessed or continue the reaction. They worked to find the right balance to sustain a reaction, graphite rods were used to mediate the reaction, and Fermi eventually sustained a k 1.006 reaction, with the number of neutrons doubling every two minutes. 


1. *Rhodes writes that, at the outset, "there are indications in Bush's memorandum that Roosevelt was concerned less with a German challenge than with the long-term consequences of acquiring so decisive a new class of destructive instruments." Do think this belief was widely held by the military (US and other), or were most focused on the conflict at present?  Do you think views about this changed as the war progressed to looking at civilian causalities as part of warfare (for example, Hamburg, Cologne, the Blitz).*

I believe most were focused on the conflict at present, not fully thinking of the long term consequences of the development of such a weapon. They believed that the first ones to develop such a weapon would be able to win the war by sheer theoretical destructive power alone. The mere threat of total annihilation would bring their opponents to surrender, not thinking about the eventual possibility that everyone would catch up and reach the stalemate that was the Cold War. I believe the mindset has definitely shifted as war become augmented with rapid development in military technology. Casualties were greater, quicker and more painful, and war shifted from being at the scale of the person to one of the entire military industrial complex. 
