#### Part 1: Sections 1-4

1. As you read, make a diagram with the name of each prominent physicist character inside an oval. Use lines to connect the ovals in a logical way (for example, Rutherford connected to Bohr). Add circles for any major influencers on those characters (science or otherwise).

*see attached image*

2. Rutherford is often considered the father of nuclear physics. Support this assertion with three pieces of evidence from the book.

Rutherford discovered deflection of alpha particle through thin materials, indicating that although the atom was mostly empty space, there was an extremely dense area of electromagnetic field that was capable of deflecting particles even at a very high velocity. Then, with the experiment of deflecting particles, he discovers nucleus with Marsden. He continues to be a mentor to many physicists that continue on their discoveries in nuclear physics. 

3. Describe in your own words the ideas Bohr connected to create his model of the atom. What were the disparate ideas and how did he connect them?

There was the idea of the solar system like model proposed by Rutherford, however, this would suggest that electrons would eventually lose energy and crash into the nucleus. It was planck's idea of energy quantization, and einstiens proposal of the photon that bohr built upon to discover quantized orbits that electrons would fall into, and when they changed to a lower energy orbit they would emit a quantized form of energy, the photon. He developed a formula that directly predicted the numbers that Rydberd and Balmer came up with. This drop would be probabilistic, suggesting a view against the clockwork nature of the universe, connecting to his strong belief in free will. 

4. Many of the physicists involved in weapons development during World War I, like Fritz Haber, did so hoping that these weapons would limit the number of casualties by shortening the war. Putting yourself into their time and circumstances, do you see their reasoning as morally right or wrong?

Their reasoning made sense in the short term, thinking that if they could develop nuclear weapons before the each other, then they could display their destructive capability as a threat, hoping for the other party's surrender. "Besides, it was a way of saving countless lives, if it meant that the war could be brought to an end sooner." Some like Hahn, believed that science was to be used for the country in times of war, only for the world in times of peace. Their reasoning, however, like the author states, created a death machine out of war. It was no longer a battle between soldiers that fought for an ideology, the development and advancement of weapons created a war that felt only like disconnected suffering, that they were placed there to die. 

##### Part 2: Sections 4 - 8

1. Continue with the flow chart of physicists for sections 5 and 6, focusing now on work relationships between physicists.
	1. *see attached* 
2. Explain Bohr's idea of complementarity. How did it affect his concepts about subatomic particles?
	1. Complementarity is the idea that contradictory models of science can be equally valid, the classical model that is used to predict macroscopic objects and the quantum model for those at the quantum scale for example are both valid. It is necessary to understand atoms with a quantum lens but it would be too complicated, along with the effects of decoherence, to model something large with quantum mechanics. It "is to accept the different and mutually exclusive results as equally valid and stand them side by side to build up a composite picture of the atomic domain." Bohr found the view of mutual acceptance palpable as either view was an abstraction made up to model the interactions of quantum phenomena, nothing was truly reality. When something could be explained as a particle or wave, they did so to fit the problem they were solving. These abstractions didn't contradict but complemented each other, helping explaining phenomena at different scales and in different conditions. They were not meant to be resolved, as they both described valid components of the phenomena. 
		
3. How does Oppenheimer fit the stereotype of "physicist" as presented by the Berkeley study discussed in chapter 6?
	1. The archetype of the physicist was someone who was born into a pretty wealthy family, having access to lots of connections. They are emotionally reserved and was most likely not an outgoing child but was smart, typically with a higher IQ than his peers. Oppenheimer was a "sickly child" feeling "lonely and different", born into a pretty wealthy family he had the opportunity to visit Germany where it blossomed his interest and curiosity about crystals. They are also very dedicated to the field. Oppenheimer "works hard and devotedly in his laboratory, often seven days a week." 
		
4. Can you think of times in history other than Hitler's rise to power that would have caused such an movement of scientists around the globe? What are they?
	1. I don't think there ever has been a time that's comparable to Hitler's rise to power for the amount of movement caused for scientists being forcibly displaced from their positions merely because of their ethnicity. One I can think of, is the immigration of soviet scientists from the collapse of the USSR and the Soviet Scientists Immigration Act of 1992, bringing in Igor Sikorsky, Vladimir Zworykin, Ilya Prigogine and other notable scientists. 

#### Part 3: Sections 9 - 12
1. Why are "slow neutrons" important?
	"how could a slow neutron transmute uranium into a much lighter rare earth thirty-four places down the periodic table?"
	They had discovered the reason no elements beyond uranium exist naturally in the world: the two forces working against each other in the nucleus eventually cancel each other out.They pictured the uranium nucleus as a liquid drop gone wobbly with the looseness of its confinement and imagined it hit by even a barely energetic slow neutron. The neutron would add its energy to the whole. The nucleus would oscillate. In one of its many random modes of oscillation it might elongate.

Rhodes mentions "A charged particle needed energy to push through the nucleus’ electrical barrier. A neutron did not. Slowing down a neutron gave it more time in the vicinity of the nucleus, and that gave it more time to be captured. " Slower neutrons could have larger cross sections than larger ones. This ultimately led to Fermi's efforts in the splitting of the Uranium atom into Barium and Krypton. Initially, they thought that the energy would be too small to split the atom, however, factoring the strong force's *surface tension* and modeling it as a liquid droplet turned out to match the experimental results. Later on , "the Columbia test of the samples clearly showed that U-235 was responsible for the slow neutron fission of uranium" leading to the discovery of uranium enrichment and then nuclear reactors and bombs. 

2. Alfred Nobel laid out the foundation of the Nobel prize in the following excerpt from his will:
	“All of my remaining realisable assets are to be disbursed as follows: the capital, converted to safe securities by my executors, is to constitute a fund, the interest on which is to be distributed annually as prizes to those who, during the preceding year, have conferred the greatest benefit to humankind. The interest is to be divided into five equal parts and distributed as follows: one part to the person who made the most important discovery or invention in the field of physics; one part to the person who made the most important chemical discovery or improvement; one part to the person who made the most important discovery within the domain of physiology or medicine; one part to the person who, in the field of literature, produced the most outstanding work in an idealistic direction; and one part to the person who has done the most or best to advance fellowship among nations, the abolition or reduction of standing armies, and the establishment and promotion of peace congresses. The prizes for physics and chemistry are to be awarded by the Swedish Academy of Sciences; that for physiological or medical achievements by the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm; that for literature by the Academy in Stockholm; and that for champions of peace by a committee of five persons to be selected by the Norwegian Storting. It is my express wish that when awarding the prizes, no consideration be given to nationality, but that the prize be awarded to the worthiest person, whether or not they are Scandinavian.”
	Given these criteria, who would you have chosen for the Nobel Prize for nuclear fission and why?

For nuclear fission, Fermi got the Nobel prize but Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch were invaluable to the progress and discovery of fission. 
Lise Meitner “persuaded Otto Hahn to renew our direct collaboration” to explore the consequences of bombarding uranium with neutrons 
Otto Frisch worked with Meitner on the model of the water droplet to explain the discrepancy in the splitting of the Uranium atom. Demonstrated that the slowing of neutrons led to the release of alpha particles greater than Uranium's natural decay.Both developed the foundational theory that eventually led to the first fission experiment. They discovered the “disintegration of uranium by neutrons: a new type of nuclear reaction” and “Physical evidence for the division of heavy nuclei under neutron bombardment”—used the new term “fission.” Bohr also mentions "that no public account . . . could legitimately appear without mentioning your and your aunt’s original interpretation of the Hahn results" 
 

3. In section 10- Neutrons, Eugene Wigner retrospectively explains how the Hungarians saw humanitarian benefit to an atomic weapon. In his quote (page 308 in paperback version) that begins "Although none of us spoke much about it to the authorities [during this early period]- they considered us dreamers enough" he speaks about control of military forces with atomic weapons by a common higher authority, and that this would abolish further war. What do you think they meant by a higher authority? In today's world, how would you decide what constitutes this higher authority? Do you think it work as a prevention of war?

 A higher authority could refer to some sort of joint government or partnership between countries, which would serve to keep nations in check by sheer power and fear alone. This is predictive of the cold war, where although the US and USSR mass produced exponentially deadly weapons that could destroy the world multiple times over, it was paradoxically peaceful as no one dared burst the bubble that would lead to the destruction of the entire world.  In today's word, a higher power is like the UN, serving as an intermediary between the big 5 nations as well as keeping each other in check with embargos and sanctions. Currently, although they do not hold much military power at all, the pressure of the united agreements of all the other countries as well as economic pressures serve in the same way as Wigner had hoped to maintain peace. I think this system only worked to a certain extent, as the UN, despite a large majority voting for an immediate ceasefire for the Israel Palestine conflict has not amounted to much. 